ReadMe.md, before:

```
   _ _ _
  /_/_/_/\
 /_/_/_/\/\
/_/_/_/\/\/\
\_\_\_\/\/\/
 \_\_\_\/\/
  \_\_\_\/

 ______   __  __   ______   __   __  __   ______       ______   __  __   ______   ______    
/\  == \ /\ \/\ \ /\  == \ /\ \ /\ \/ /  /\  ___\     /\  ___\ /\ \/\ \ /\  == \ /\  ___\   
\ \  __< \ \ \_\ \\ \  __< \ \ \\ \  _"-.\ \___  \    \ \ \____\ \ \_\ \\ \  __< \ \  __\   
 \ \_\ \_\\ \_____\\ \_____\\ \_\\ \_\ \_\\/\_____\    \ \_____\\ \_____\\ \_____\\ \_____\ 
  \/_/ /_/ \/_____/ \/_____/ \/_/ \/_/\/_/ \/_____/     \/_____/ \/_____/ \/_____/ \/_____/ 
                  
```

Project designed by: Michael ( Max ) Gunter

## Overview:

This is an interactive Python project that brings the classic Rubik's Cube into the digital realm. This project leverages a sophisticated Python 3D matrix data structure to store and manipulate the values of each side of the Rubik's Cube

## Run Commands:
[Link to Makefile](Makefile)

## Getting Started:

- [Initialize Perfect Cube](#example-get-perfect-cube)
- [Move & Visualize a Cube](#example-move-cube)
- [Cube Rotation](#example-rotate-cube)
- [Simple Manual Solve](#example-simple-solve)

---

<a name="example-get-perfect-cube"></a>

## Initialize & Visualize a Perfect Cube

This will initialize the RubiksCube class, returning a perfect cube. Then Visualize the cube, outputting it to the console.

**Code Example:**
```
cube_client = RubiksCube()
cube_client.visualize_cube()
```

**Output:**
```
                     Back                     

                ['g', 'g', 'g']                
                ['g', 'g', 'g']                
                ['g', 'g', 'g']                

                      Top                      

                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                

     Left           Front           Right     

['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o']
['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o']
['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o']

                    Bottom                    

                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y']
```

---

<a name="example-move-cube"></a>

## Initialize, Move & Visualize a Cube

This will initialize the RubiksCube class, then the cube will be mutated, moving the right vertical section down. After the cube has mutated we will be able to visualize it.

**Code Example:**
```
cube_client = RubiksCube()

cube_client.move_cube(
   section="right",
   orientation="vertical",
   direction="down",
   turns=1
)

cube_client.visualize_cube()
```

**Output:**

```
                     Back                     

                ['y', 'g', 'g']                
                ['y', 'g', 'g']                
                ['y', 'g', 'g']                

                      Top                      

                ['w', 'w', 'g']                
                ['w', 'w', 'g']                
                ['w', 'w', 'g']                

     Left           Front           Right     

['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'w'] ['o', 'o', 'o']
['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'w'] ['o', 'o', 'o']
['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'w'] ['o', 'o', 'o']

                    Bottom                    

                ['y', 'y', 'b']                
                ['y', 'y', 'b']                
                ['y', 'y', 'b']
```

---

<a name="example-rotate-cube"></a>

## Cube Rotation

Cube rotation allows us to operate all given moves on any side of the cube just by rotating it to the desired side.

**Code Example:**
```
cube_client = RubiksCube()

cube_client.rotate_cube(
   direction="left", 
   turns=1
)
cube_client.visualize_cube()
``````

**Output:**

```
                     Back                     

                ['r', 'r', 'r']                
                ['r', 'r', 'r']                
                ['r', 'r', 'r']                

                      Top                      

                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                

     Left           Front           Right     

['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g']
['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g']
['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g']

                    Bottom                    

                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y'] 
```

---

<a name="example-simple-solve"></a>

## Simple Solve Example

This example shows how you could solve the cube without repeating or reversing moves. It is expected to return a perfect cube, just turned around

```
cube_client = RubiksCube()
cube_client.move_cube(
   section="left",
   orientation="vertical",
   direction="down",
   turns=1
)
cube_client.rotate_cube("right", 2)
cube_client.move_cube(
   section="right",
   orientation="vertical",
   direction="down",
   turns=1
)
cube_client.visualize_cube()
```

**Output:**

```
                     Back                     

                ['b', 'b', 'b']                
                ['b', 'b', 'b']                
                ['b', 'b', 'b']                

                      Top                      

                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                

     Left           Front           Right     

['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g'] ['r', 'r', 'r']
['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g'] ['r', 'r', 'r']
['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g'] ['r', 'r', 'r']

                    Bottom                    

                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y']  
```

---

## Project Milestones

### Milestone 1: Project Initialization
- **Status:** Completed
- **Description:** This milestone involves initializing the RubiksCube class, setting the cube as a 3D matrix and providing functions which will mutate the cubes data.

### Milestone 2: Implement Vertical Moves ( Up & Down )
- **Status:** Completed
- **Description:** This milestone involves manipulation capabilities by implementing vertical moves.

### Milestone 3: Implement Horizontal Moves ( Left & Right )
- **Status:** Completed
- **Description:** This milestone involves completing the cube manipulation capabilities by implementing horizontal moves.

### Milestone 4: Rotating the Cube
- **Status:** Completed
- **Description:** Because we will only be referencing all moves from one side, we'll want to be able to rotate the cube as if you were examining it by hand.

### Milestone 5: Solve Algorithm
- **Status:** In Progress
- **Description:** Once horizontal moves and cube rotations are implemented, the project will focus on developing an efficient algorithm to solve the Rubik's Cube. The goal is to create a solution that outputs a list of optimal moves to return the cube to its solved state.

### Milestone 6: Convert to a Python Module
- **Status:** Planned
- **Description:** In this milestone, the project will be transformed into a Python module, allowing users to install and use it as part of their Python projects. This step involves packaging, distribution, and making it available through standard Python package management tools.

Commit message:

adding testing to readme milestones

ReadMe.md, after:

```
   _ _ _
  /_/_/_/\
 /_/_/_/\/\
/_/_/_/\/\/\
\_\_\_\/\/\/
 \_\_\_\/\/
  \_\_\_\/

 ______   __  __   ______   __   __  __   ______       ______   __  __   ______   ______    
/\  == \ /\ \/\ \ /\  == \ /\ \ /\ \/ /  /\  ___\     /\  ___\ /\ \/\ \ /\  == \ /\  ___\   
\ \  __< \ \ \_\ \\ \  __< \ \ \\ \  _"-.\ \___  \    \ \ \____\ \ \_\ \\ \  __< \ \  __\   
 \ \_\ \_\\ \_____\\ \_____\\ \_\\ \_\ \_\\/\_____\    \ \_____\\ \_____\\ \_____\\ \_____\ 
  \/_/ /_/ \/_____/ \/_____/ \/_/ \/_/\/_/ \/_____/     \/_____/ \/_____/ \/_____/ \/_____/ 
                  
```

Project designed by: Michael ( Max ) Gunter

## Overview:

This is an interactive Python project that brings the classic Rubik's Cube into the digital realm. This project leverages a sophisticated Python 3D matrix data structure to store and manipulate the values of each side of the Rubik's Cube

## Run Commands:
[Link to Makefile](Makefile)

## Getting Started:

- [Initialize Perfect Cube](#example-get-perfect-cube)
- [Move & Visualize a Cube](#example-move-cube)
- [Cube Rotation](#example-rotate-cube)
- [Simple Manual Solve](#example-simple-solve)

---

<a name="example-get-perfect-cube"></a>

## Initialize & Visualize a Perfect Cube

This will initialize the RubiksCube class, returning a perfect cube. Then Visualize the cube, outputting it to the console.

**Code Example:**
```
cube_client = RubiksCube()
cube_client.visualize_cube()
```

**Output:**
```
                     Back                     

                ['g', 'g', 'g']                
                ['g', 'g', 'g']                
                ['g', 'g', 'g']                

                      Top                      

                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                

     Left           Front           Right     

['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o']
['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o']
['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o']

                    Bottom                    

                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y']
```

---

<a name="example-move-cube"></a>

## Initialize, Move & Visualize a Cube

This will initialize the RubiksCube class, then the cube will be mutated, moving the right vertical section down. After the cube has mutated we will be able to visualize it.

**Code Example:**
```
cube_client = RubiksCube()

cube_client.move_cube(
   section="right",
   orientation="vertical",
   direction="down",
   turns=1
)

cube_client.visualize_cube()
```

**Output:**

```
                     Back                     

                ['y', 'g', 'g']                
                ['y', 'g', 'g']                
                ['y', 'g', 'g']                

                      Top                      

                ['w', 'w', 'g']                
                ['w', 'w', 'g']                
                ['w', 'w', 'g']                

     Left           Front           Right     

['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'w'] ['o', 'o', 'o']
['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'w'] ['o', 'o', 'o']
['r', 'r', 'r'] ['b', 'b', 'w'] ['o', 'o', 'o']

                    Bottom                    

                ['y', 'y', 'b']                
                ['y', 'y', 'b']                
                ['y', 'y', 'b']
```

---

<a name="example-rotate-cube"></a>

## Cube Rotation

Cube rotation allows us to operate all given moves on any side of the cube just by rotating it to the desired side.

**Code Example:**
```
cube_client = RubiksCube()

cube_client.rotate_cube(
   direction="left", 
   turns=1
)
cube_client.visualize_cube()
``````

**Output:**

```
                     Back                     

                ['r', 'r', 'r']                
                ['r', 'r', 'r']                
                ['r', 'r', 'r']                

                      Top                      

                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                

     Left           Front           Right     

['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g']
['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g']
['b', 'b', 'b'] ['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g']

                    Bottom                    

                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y'] 
```

---

<a name="example-simple-solve"></a>

## Simple Solve Example

This example shows how you could solve the cube without repeating or reversing moves. It is expected to return a perfect cube, just turned around

```
cube_client = RubiksCube()
cube_client.move_cube(
   section="left",
   orientation="vertical",
   direction="down",
   turns=1
)
cube_client.rotate_cube("right", 2)
cube_client.move_cube(
   section="right",
   orientation="vertical",
   direction="down",
   turns=1
)
cube_client.visualize_cube()
```

**Output:**

```
                     Back                     

                ['b', 'b', 'b']                
                ['b', 'b', 'b']                
                ['b', 'b', 'b']                

                      Top                      

                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                
                ['w', 'w', 'w']                

     Left           Front           Right     

['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g'] ['r', 'r', 'r']
['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g'] ['r', 'r', 'r']
['o', 'o', 'o'] ['g', 'g', 'g'] ['r', 'r', 'r']

                    Bottom                    

                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y']                
                ['y', 'y', 'y']  
```

---

## Project Milestones

### Milestone 1: Project Initialization
- **Status:** Completed
- **Description:** This milestone involves initializing the RubiksCube class, setting the cube as a 3D matrix and providing functions which will mutate the cubes data.

### Milestone 2: Implement Vertical Moves ( Up & Down )
- **Status:** Completed
- **Description:** This milestone involves manipulation capabilities by implementing vertical moves.

### Milestone 3: Implement Horizontal Moves ( Left & Right )
- **Status:** Completed
- **Description:** This milestone involves completing the cube manipulation capabilities by implementing horizontal moves.

### Milestone 4: Rotating the Cube
- **Status:** Completed
- **Description:** Because we will only be referencing all moves from one side, we'll want to be able to rotate the cube as if you were examining it by hand.

### Milestone 5: Testing
- **Status:** In Progress
- **Description:** This project has been powered by test driven development, curiosity, and the iterative process. This milestone is to ensure all moves are covered properly by writing tests. A manual but invaluable asset. Testing every move will ensure the algorithms reliability, we do not scramble our cube making it impossible to solve!

### Milestone 6: Solve Algorithm
- **Status:** In Progress
- **Description:** Once testing is completed, the project will focus on developing an efficient algorithm to solve a Rubik's Cube. The goal is to create a solution that outputs a list of optimal moves to return the cube to its solved state.

### Milestone 7: Convert to a Python Module
- **Status:** Planned
- **Description:** In this milestone, the project will be transformed into a Python module, allowing users to install and use it as part of their Python projects. This step involves packaging, distribution, and making it available through standard Python package management tools.
